Playlist found here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUl4u3cNGP63UUkfL0onkxF6MYgVa04Fn

Course:
https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-s12-blockchain-and-money-fall-2018/index.htm

Readings: https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-s12-blockchain-and-money-fall-2018/readings/

Slides:
https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-s12-blockchain-and-money-fall-2018/lecture-slides/

Lecture 1: Introduction 
Q: What is blockchain technology and why might it be a catalyst for change in the financial sector?

Lecture 2: Money, Ledgers and Bitcoin
Q1: What do the roles and characteristics of money mean historically and in today's digital economy?
Q2: What is fiat currency, what are its ledgers and how it fits within the history of money?
Q3: How does Bitcoin fit within the history of money, the emergence of the Internet and failed attempts of cryptographic payment systems?

Lecture 3: Blockchain Basics and Cryptography
Q1: What are the design features - cryptography, append-only timestamped blocks, distributed consensus algorithms, and networking - of Bitcoin, the first use case for blockchain technology?
Q2: What are cryptographic hash functions, asymmetric cryptography and digital signatures? How are they utilizes to help make blockchain technology verifiable and immutable?
Q3: What is the double-spending problem and how it is addressed by blockchain technology?

Lecture 4: Blockchain Basics and Consensus
Q1: What is the Byzantine Generals problem? How does proof-of-work and mining in Bitcoin address it? More generally, how does blockchain technology address it?
Q2: What other consensus protocals are there? What are some of the tradeoffs of alternative consensus algorithms - proof-of-work, proof-of-stake, etc?
Q3: How do economic incentives work within blockchain technology to maintain decentralized ledgers and avoid double spending? What are the incentives of consensus protocals and mining?

Lecture 5: Blockchain Basics and Transactionas, UTXO and Script Code
Q1: How does Bitcoin record transactions? What is unspent transaction output (UTXO)? What is script code embedded in each Bitcoin transaction and how flexible a programming language is it?
A1: Transactions are formatted such that the Input is the structured data sat (Previous Transaction ID, Index, Signature) and the Output is the structured data set (Value, Public Key [i.e., Bitcoin Address]). Additionally, each transaction has a lock_time parameter which specifies the time at which the transcation may be considered finalized. The blockchain does not validate the transactions before the lock_time, unlike humans might choose to do.

N1: "Turing-completeness" gives programming languages the ability to do loops inside code. Bitcoin scripting language DOES NOT allow this because it is not Turing complete.
N2: 1 Bitcoin == 10^8 Satoshis (i.e., 100 million Satoshis)
N3: 1 Ether == 10^9 Gas (i.e., 1 billion Gas)
N4: "Output may not be used as a Transaction Input until another 100 Blocks" - this is an arbitrary hard-coded number chosen by Nakamoto.
N5: Student raises the point that in March 2013, miners accidentally forked the blockchain, see here:
https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2015/07/28/analyzing-the-2013-bitcoin-fork-centralized-decision-making-saved-the-day/

Q2: As many design features pre-date Bitcoin, what was the novel innovation of Satoshi Nakamoto? 
Addressing the double spending issue. 
Nakamoto consensus - "the incentive structure [...] aligning everybody to create trusted signing parties [...]"
Student points out legal differences between blockchains and Blockchain - the former have existed for decades.

Q3: Who is Satoshi Nakamoto?

Lecture 6: Smart Contracts and DApps

Q1: What are smart contracts? How do they compare to traditional contracts? What are tokens?
A1: Smart contract definition: "A set of promises, specified in digital form, including protocols within which the parties perform on these promises" - Nick Szabo, 1996

Q2: What are smart contract platforms such as Ethereum? What generally distinguishes them from Bitcoin?
N1: Ethereum and Bitcoin are both timestamped append-only ledgers.
N2: Ethereum and Bitcoin are both Proof of Work and have their own native currency and network.
N3: Ethereum does not perform UTXO process like Bitcoin - instead does "state transitions." It is account-based rather than transaction-based.
N4: Ethereums scripting language is Turing-complete, unlike Bitcoins.
N5: Ethereum block time is 14 seconds vs Bitcoin 10 minutes.

Q3: What are decentralized applications (DApps)? What has been the usage and why haven't any DApps yet received wide consumer adoption?
N6: Smart contract potential use cases according to Digital Chamber of Commerce:
* Digital Identity
* Records
* Securities
* Trade Finance
* Derivatives
* Financial Data
* Mortgages
* Land Title
* Supply Chain
* Auto Insurance
* Clinical Trials
* Cancer Research

Lecture 7: Technical Challenges
Challenges: performance, scability

Q1: How critical are the technical and commercial challenges - scalability, efficiency, privacy, security, interoperability - of current blockchain technology?

Q2: What are the possible tradeoffs of decentralization, scalability and security? What are tradeoffs of consensus software updates, governance and so-called 'hard forks'?

Q3: What might current work - Layer 2 applications, zero-knowledge proofs, alternative consensus algorithms - do to address current commercial challenges?

Vitalik Buterin's Trilemma: Scalability vs Decentralization vs Security

N1: Proof of Work energy consumption approx 200 million Kwh/day - approx the same as 7 million US homes. This is 0.33% of the world's electricity. Approx the same energy consumption as Austria. For comparison, the US financial sector is 7.5% of our economy and costs 1.5 trillion dollars.

N2: Alternative consensus protocols include randomizing or delegating the validation of the next block.

N3: Randomized selection may be based upon:
* Proof of Stake - stake in native currency
* Proof of Activity - hybrid of POW and POS
* Proof of Burn - validation comes with burning of coins
* Proof of Capacity (Storage or Space) - based upon hardware space

TODO: rewatch this lecture

Lecture 8: Public Policy

Lecture 9: Permissioned Systems

Lecture 10: Financial System Challenges and Opportunities

Lecture 11: Blockchain Economics

Lecture 12: Assessing Use Cases

Lecture 13: Payments, Part 1

Lecture 14: Payments, Part 2

Lecture 15: Central Banks and Commercial Banking, Part 1

Lecture 16: Central Banks and Commercial Banking, Part 2

Lecture 17: Secondary Markets and Crypto-Exchanges

Lecture 18: MISSING?

Lecture 19: Primary Markets, ICOs and Venture Capital 1

Lecture 20: Primary Markets, ICOs and Venture Capital 2

Lecture 21: Post Trade Clearing, Settlement and Processing

Lecture 22: Trade Finance and Supply Chain

Lecture 23: Digital ID

Lecture 24: Conclusion