On Having No Head: Zen and the Rediscovery of the Obvious
D. E. Harding

"Instead of his head above his shoulders, he saw the boundless Void, full of the whole world."
"Behead yourself! Dissolve your whole body into Vision: become seeing, seeing, seeing!" - Rumi

* 1 The True Seeing
"The best day of my life - my rebirthday,  so to speak - was when I found I had no head."
"It took me no time at all to notice that this nothing, this hole where a head should have been was no ordinary vacancy, no mere nothing. On the contrary, it was very much occupied. It was a vast emptiness vastly filled, a nothing that found room for everything - room for grass, trees, shadowy distant hills, and far above them snow peaks like a row of angular clouds riding the blue sky. I had lost a head and gained a world."
"my utter facelessness"

* 2 Making Sense of the Seeing
"Somehow or other I had vaguely thought of myself as inhabiting this house which is my body, and looking out through its two little round windows at the world. Now I find it isn't like that at all. As I gaze into the distance, what is there at this moment to tell me how many eyes I have here - two, or three, or hundreds, or none? In fact, only one window appears on this side of my facade, and that one is wide open and frameless and immense, with nobody looking out of it. It is always the other fellow who has eyes and a face to frame them; never this one"
"All twoness - all duality of subject and object - has vanished"
"For here and now my world and my head are incompatibles: they won't mix. There is no room for both at once on these shoulders, and fortunately it is my head with all its anatomy that has to go"
"In either case, the observer who comes here to see what it's really like finds what I find here - vacancy"
"that this vacancy is filled to capacity with the scene. He too would find this central Point exploding into an Infinite Volume, this Nothing into the All, this Here into Everywhere"
"During my lucid intervals, however, I am clearly headless here. Over there, on the other hand, I am clearly far from headless: indeed, I have more heads than I know what to do with. Concealed in my human observers and in cameras, on display in picture frames, making faces behind shaved mirrors, peering out of doorknobs and spoons and coffee pots and anything which will take a high polish, my heads are always turning up - though more-or-less shrunken and distorted, twisted back-to-front, often the wrong way up, and multiplied to infinity."
"But there is one place where no head of mine can ever turn up, and that is here on my shoulders."
"I have never been anything but this ageless, measureless, lucid, and altogether immaculate Void"
"The sober truth is that my body, and your body, and everything else on Earth, and the Universe itself-as they might exist out there in themselves and in their own space, independently of me-are mere figments, not worth a second thought. There neither is nor can be any evidence for two parallel worls (an unknown outer or physical world there, plus a known inner or mental world here which mysteriously duplicates it) but only for this one world which is always before me, and in which I can find no division into mind and matter, inside and outside, soul and body."
"For a picture of me-with-a-head is no likeness at all: it is a portrait of someone else, a case of mistaken identity."
"For I must believe that what is true for me is true for everyone, that we all are in the same condition-reduced to headless voids, to nothing, so that we may contain and become everything."
"this little body is so united functionally to all other things, so depdendent upon its environment that it is non-existent and unthinkable by itself"
"I know my way in and out of the secret inmost heart of every creature, however remote or repulsive it might seem to the outsider, because we all are one Body, and that Body is one Void. And that Void is this void, complete and indivisible, not shared out or split up into mine and yours and theirs, but all of it present here and now"

* 3 Discovering Zen