Technopoly
Neil Postman

* 01 The Judgment of Thamus
"Every technology is both a burden and a blessing; not either-or, but this-and-that"
"every culture must negotiate with technology, whether it does so intelligently or not"
"our inventions are but improved means to an unimproved end."
"those who cultivate competence in the use of a new technology becom an elite group that are granted undeserved authority and prestige by those who have no such competence."
"language is not merely a vehicle of thought but also the driver"
"new technologies compete with old ones- for time, for attention, for money, for prestige, but mostly for dominance of their world-view."
"'conceit of wisdom' - the unreal knowledge acquired through the written word"
"Orality stresses group learning, cooperation, and a sense of social responsibility."
"Print stresses individualized learning, competition, and personal autonomy."
"Will the computer raise egocentrism to the status of a virtue?"
"technological competition ignites total war, which means it is not possible to contain the effects of a new technology to a limited sphere"
"Technological change is neither additive nor subtractive. It is ecological."

* 02 From Tools to Technocracy
"Efficiency and productivity were problems for slaves, not philosophers."
"tools have a way of intruding on even the most unified set of cultural beliefs."
"the mills to which farmers flocked to have their grain ground became a favorite place for prostitutes to attract customers."
"Tools are not integrated into the culture; they attack the culture. They bid to become the culture."

* 03 From Technocracy to Technopoly
"Technocracy gave us the idea of progress."
"Technopoly is a totalitarian technocracy."
"that people must sometimes be treated as if they were machinery is considered a necessary and unfortunate condition of technological development."

* 04 The Improbable World
"there is no idea so stupid that you can't find a professor who will believe it."
"it gave no warning about the dangers of information glut"
"information chaos"
"there are very few political, social, and especially personal problems that arise because of insufficient information."
"To the question 'What problem does the information solve?' the answer is usually 'How to generate, store, and distribute more information, more conveniently, at greater speeds than ever before.' This is the elevation of information to a metaphysical status: information as both the means and end of human creativity."
"Schools became technocracy's first secular bureaucracies, structures for legitimizing some parts of the flow of information and discrediting other parts. Schools were, in short, a means of governing the ecology of information."
"one way of defining a Technopoly is to say that its information immune system is inoperable."
"America was the first nation ever to be argued into existence in print."
"Information has become a form of garbage, not only incapableof answering the most fundamental human questions but barely useful in providing coherent direction to the solution of even mundane problems."
"information appears indiscriminately, directed at no one in particular, in enormous volume and at high speeds, and disconnected from theory, meaning, or purpose."
"It is a world in which the idea of human progress [...] has been replaced by the idea of technological progress."

* 05 The Broken Defenses
"Technopoly is a state of culture. It is also a state of mind."
"When the supply of information is no longer controllable, a general breakdown in psychic tranquillity and social purpose occurs."
"All societies have institutions and techniques that function as does a biological immune sytem. Their purpose is to maintain a balance between the old and the new, between novelty and tradition, between meaning and conceptual disorder, and they do so by 'destroying' unwanted information."
"In short, the rule of law is concerned with the 'destruction' of information."
"There is still another way of defining Technopoly. The term is aptly used for a culture whose available theories do not offer guidance about what is acceptable information in the moral domain."
"Technopoly's expoerts claim dominion not only over technical matters but also over social, psychological, and moral affairs."
"In Technopoly, the delusion is sanctified by our granting inordinate prestige to experts who are armed with sophisticated technical machinery. [...] In Technopoly, all experts are invested with the charisma of priestliness."

* 06 The Ideology of Machines: Medical Technology
* 07 The Ideology of Machines: Computer Technology
* 08 Invisible Technologies
* 09 Scientism
* 10 The Great Symbol Drain
* 11 The Loving Resistance Fighter
