The Bitcoin Standard: The Decentralized Alternative to Central Banking
Saifedean Ammous

* 0 Prologue
"Bitcoin automates the functions fo a modern central bank and makes them predictable and virtually immutable by programming them into code decentralized among thousands of network members, none of whom can alter the code without the consent of the rest."
"Money is the information and measurement system of an economy"

* 1 Money
"Bitcoin is the newest technology to serve the function of money - an invention [...] to solve a problem that has persisted for all of humanity's existence: how to move economic value across time and space."
"Throughout human history, many things have served the function of money: gold and silver, most notably, but also copper, seashells, large stones, salt, cattle, government paper, precious stones, and even alcohol and cigaretters in cerain conditions."
"We can understand money's hardness through understanding two distinct quantities related to the supply of a good: (1) the stock, [...] and (2) the flow. The ration between the stock and flow is a reliable indicator of a good's hardness as money."
"easy money trap: anything used as a store of value will have its supply increased, and anything whose supply can be easily increased will destroy the wealth of those who used it as a store of value."
"Competition is at all times alive between monetary media"

* 2 Primitive Money
"the world salary is derived from sal, the Latin word for salt"
"As soon as these moneys [seashells, etc] lose their hardness, their holders suffered significant wealth expropriation and the entire fabric of their society fell apart as a result. [...] a money that is easy to produce is no money at all, and easy money does not make a society richer, on the contrary , it makes it poorer by placing all its hard-earned wealth for sale in exchange for something easy to produce."

* 3 Monetary Metals
"Gold coins were the goods most salable across time, because they could hold their value over time and resist decay and ruin. They were also the goods most salable across space, beause they carried a lot of value in samll weights, allowing for easy transportation. Silver coins, on the other hand, had the advantage of being the most salable good across scales, because their lower value per weight unit compared to gold allowed for them to conveniently serve as a medium of exchange for small transactions, while bronze coins would be useful for the least valuable transactions."
"[...] governments and counterfeiters could, and frequently did, reduce the precious metal content in these coins, causing their value to decline by transferring a fraction of their puchasing power to the counterfeiters or the government."
"For anything to function as a good store of value, it has to beat this trap: it has to appreciate when people demand it as a store of value, but its producers have to be constrained from inflating the supply significantly enough to bring the price down."
"[the gold] growth rate has always been around 1.5%, never exceeding 2%"
"Only silver comes close to gold in this regard, with an annual supply growth rate historically around 5-10%, rising to around 20% in the modern day"
"second place in monetary competition was equivalent to losing out"
"Human civilization flourished in times and places where sound money was widely adopted, while unsound money all too frequently coincided with civilizational decline and societal collapse."
Roman emperor Nero (who ruled from 54-68 AD) was the first to engage in coin clipping, "wherein the Emperor would collect the coins of the population and mint them into newer coins with less gold or silver content."
This "was highly similar to Keyne's solution [...]: devaluing the currency would at once reduce the real wages of workers, reduce the burden of the government in subsidizing staples, and provide increased money for financing other government expenditure."
"Seventeen centuries of people the world over have used [the Roman solidus, the Constantinople's bezant, or the Islamic dinar - all containing 4.5g of gold] this coin for transactions, emphasizing the salability of gold across time."
"It is the author's opinion that the history of China and India, and their failure to catch up to the West during the twentieth century, is inextricably linked to this massive destruction of wealth and capital brought about by the demonetization of the monetary metal [silver instead of gold] that these countries utilized."
"domestic hard money was easy money for foreigners, and was being driven out by foreign hard money"
"History shows it is not possible to insulate yourself from the consequences of others holding money that is harder than yours."
"Nineteenth-century sound money economists [...] focused their understanding of (i) money's soundness on its salability as a market good, and (ii) money's soundness on its resistance to control by a sovereign."
During the period of the gold standard, "it was possible to circumnavigate the globe and use one form of money everywhere"
"Even as central banks repeatedly declared the end of gold's monetary role, their actions in maintaining their gold reserves ring truer."

* 4 Government Money
"With irredeemable government money, on the other hand, government's debt and/or paper is used as money, and the government is able to increase its supply as it sees fit."
"it was not government that decreed gold as money; rather, it was only by holding hold that governments could get their money to be accepted at all."
"With the simple suspension of gold redeemability, governments' war efforts were no longer limited to the money that they had in their own treasuries, but extended virtually to the entire wealth of the population"
"But with the suspension of the gold standard, running out of financing was not enough to end the war; a sovereign had to run out of its people's accumulated wealth expropriated through inflation."
"President Roosevelt issued an execute order banning the private ownership of gold, forcing Americans to sell their gold to the US Treasury at a rate of $20.67 per ounce. With the population deprived of sound money, and aforced to deal with dollars, Roosevelt then revalued the dollar on the international market from $20.67 per ounce to $35 per ounce, a 41% devaluation fo the dollar in real terms (gold)."
"Government is immune to the concept of opportunity costs"
"If soldiers are not to cross international borders, goods must do so."
"It is well-known that history is written by the victors, but in the era of government money, victors get to decide on the monetary systems, too."
"the US government promised to redeem dollars in gold to other countries central banks at a fixed rate, opening what was known as the gold exchange window." [...] "On August 15, 1971 President Nixon announced the end of dollar convertibility into gold." [...] "In effect, the US had defaulted on its commitment to redeem its dollars in gold."
"When a country's currency is devalued, its products become cheaper to foreigners, leading to more goods leaving the country, while holders of the currency seek to purchase foreign currencies to protect themselves from devaluation. As devaluation is usually accompanied by artificially low interest rates, capital seeks exit from the country to go where it can be better rewarded, exacerbating the devaluation of the currency."
"In the presence of fiat money to finance government, political differences between parties disappear as politics no longer contains trade-offs and every candidate can champion every cause."
"The market for foreign exchange, at $5 trillion of daily volume, exists purely as a result of this inefficiency of the absence of a single global homogeneous international currency."
"[...] the currencies that are most accepted worldwide, and have the highest salability globally, have a higher stock-to-flow ratio than the other currencies"
"Growth at 5% per year may not sound like much, but it will double the money supply of a country in only 15 years."
"In 2003, when the US invaded Iraq, aerial bombardment destroyed the Iraqi central bank and with it the capability of the Iraqi government to print new Iraqi dinars. This led to the dinar drastically appreciating overnight as Iraqis became more confident in the currency given that no central bank could print it anymore. A similar story happened to the Somali shillings are their central bank was destroyed. Money is more desirable when demonstrably scarce than when liable to being debased."
"Indians who woke up on November 8, 2016 to hear that their government had suspended the legal tender status of 500 and 1000 rupee notes"
"Government control of money has turned money from being the reward for producting value to the reward for obedience to government officials"
"value does not exist outside of human consciousness"

* 5 Money and Time Preference
"Time preference refers to the ratio at which individuals value the present compared to the future"
"[...] time preference is positive for all humans; there is always a discount on the future compared to the present"
"the most important economic decisions to any individual's well-being are the ones they conduct in their trade-offs with their future self."
"The sobering reality to keep in mind is that a man's lot in life will be largely determined by these trades between him and his future self."
"Civilization is not about more capital accumulation per se; rather, it is about what capital accumulation allows humans to achieve, the flourishing and freedom to seek hgiher meaning in life when their base needs ar emet and most pressing dangers averted."
"The better the money is at holding its value, the more it incentivizes people to delay consumption"
"The reduction in the purchasing power of money is similar to a form of taxation or expropriation, reducing the real value of one's money even while the nominal value is constant. In modern economies government-issues money is inextricably linked to artifically lower interest rates, which is a desirable goal for modern economicsts because it promotes bnorrowwing and investing. But the effect of this manipulation of the price of capital is to artifically reduce the interest rate that accrues to savers and investors, asd well as the one paid by borrowers. The natural implication of this process is to reduce savings and increase borrowing. At the margin, individuals will consume more of their income and borrow more against the future. This will not just have implications on their time preference in financial decisions; it will likely reflect on everything in their lives."
"Unlike all other goods, money's functions as a mdeium of exchange, store of value, and unit of account are completely orthogonal to its quantity."
"The reality of monetary competition constantly has disadvantaged individuals and societies that invest their savings in metals other than gold while rewarding those who invest their savings in gold, because it cannot be inflated easily and because it forces people to direct their energies away from producing a monetary good and toward producing more useful goods and services."
"money is the market good with the least diminishing marginal utility"
"Even the best-performing and most stable governemnt forms of money have witnessed their value decimated compared to gold, with their value currently running at around 2-3% of their value in 1971 when they were all delinked from gold. This does not represent a rise in the market value of gold, but rather a drop in the value of fiat currencies. When comparing prices of goods and services to the value of government money and gold, we find a significant rise in their prices as expressed in government money, but relative stability in their prices in gold."
"The average savings rate of the seven largest advanced economies was 12.66% in 1970, but has dropped to 3.39% in 2015"
HL Mencken: "Every election is an advanced auction on stolen goods."

* 6 Capitalism's Information System
"the knowledge of economic conditions is by its very nature distributed"
"prices are knowledge"
"The rise in the price itself contains all the relevant information they need"
"Price then are not simply a tool to allow capitalists to profit; they are the information system of economic production, communication knowledge across the world and coordinating the complex processes of production. Any economic system that tries to dispense with prices will cause the complete breakdown of economic activity and bring a human society back to a primitive state."
"Scarcity is the starting point of all economics, and it is not possible to produce unlimited quantities of all inputs; trade-offs need to be made [...]"
"Those who confuse entrepreneurship and management close their eyes to the economic problem... the capitalis system is not a managerial system, it is an entrepreneurial system" - Mises
"banks create money whenever they engage in lending"
"This underlies the relationship between money supply and interest rates: when interest rates drop, there is an increase in lending, which leads to an increase in money creation and a rise in the money supply. On the other hand, a rise in interest rates causes a reduction in lending and contraction in the money supply, or at least a reduction in the rate of its growth."
"Scarcity is the fundamental starting point of all economics, and its most important implication is the notion that everything has an opportunity cost. In the capital market, the opportunity cost of capital is forgone consumption, and the opportunity cost of consumption is forgone capital investment. The interest rate is the price that regulates this relationship."
"the more unsound the form of money, and the easier it is for central banks to manipulate interest rates, the more severe the business cycles are."
"[...] the IMF, whose rules prevent governments from tying their currency's value to gold [...]"
"The Impossible Trinity: no government can successfully achieve all three goals of having a fixed foreign exchange rate, free capital flows, and an independent monetary policy."
"an entrepreneur in the year 1900 could make global economic plans and calculations all denominated in any international currency, with no thought whatsoever given to exchange rate fluctuations."
"Reducing the value of the currency does nothing to increase the competitiveness of the industries in real terms. Instead it only creates a one-time discount on their outputs, thus offering them to foreigners at a lower price than locals, impoverishing locals and subsidizing foreigners. It also makes all the country's assets cheaper for foreigners, allowing them to come in and purchase land, capital, and resources in the country at a discount."
"Effectively each country is impoverishing its citizens in order to boost its exporters and raise GDP numbers."

* 7 Sound Money and Individual Freedom
"The fundamental scam of modernity is the idea that government needs to manage the money supply."
"When the alternative to spending money is witnessing your savings lose value over time, you might as well enjoy spending it before it loses its values."
"The Austrian theory of money posits that money emerges in a market as the most marketable commodity and most salable asset, the one asset whose holders can sell with the most ease, in favorable conditions. An asset that holds its value is preferable to an asset that loses value, and savers who want to choose a medium of exchange will gravitate toward assets that hold value over time as monetary assets. Network effects mean that eventually only one, or a few, assets can emerge as media of exchange. For Mises, the absence of control by government is a necessary condition for the soundness of money, seeing as government will have the temptation to debase its moneyt whenever it begins to accrue wealth as savers invest in it."
"the services which money renders can be neither improved nor impaired by changing the supply of money" - Mises
"A currency that appreciates in value incentivizes savings, as savings gain purchasing power over time"
"the replacement of liberalism by liberality"
"Whereas liberalism held the role of government as allowing individuals to live in liberty and enjoy the benefits, and suffer the consequences, of their actions, liberality was the radical notion that it was government's role to allow individuals to indulge in all their desires while protecting them from the consequences. Socially, economically, and politically, the role of government was recast as the wish-granting genie, and the population merely had to vote for what it wanted to have it fulfilled."
"Democracy thus becomes a mass delusion of people attempting to override the rules of economics by voting themselves a free lunch and being manipulated into violent tantrums against scapegoats whenever the bill for the free lunch arrives via inflation and economic recessions."
"the ballot box cannot overturn the fundamental scarcity of human time"
"Unsound money make government power potentially unlimited, with large consequences to every individual, forcing politics to the center stage of their life and redirecting much of sciety's energy and resources to the zero-sum game of who gets to rule and how."
"There is only one good thing about Marx, at least he was not a Keynesian" - Rothbard
"In such a system, money stops functioning as an information system for production, but rather as a government loyalty program."
"In a society with unsound money, the central bank is simply able to create new money supply and use it to support the bank's liquidity. Unsound money thus creates a distinction between liquidity and solvency: a bank could be solvent in terms of the net present value of its assets but face a liquidity problem that prevents it from meeting its financial obligations within a certain period of time."
"But the presence of a central bank able to bail out the banks creates a major problem of moral hazard for these banks. They can now take excessive risks knowing that the central bank will be inclined to bail them out to avert a systemic crisis. From this we see how banking has evolved into a business that generates returns without risks to bankers and simultaneously creates risks without returns for everyone else."

* 8 Digital Money
"Before the invention of Bitcoin, intermediated payments included (though were not limited to) all forms of digital payment"
"payment through intermediaries leaves the parties vulnerable to surveillance and bans by political authorities."
"as the processing power rises, Bitcoin will riase the difficulty of the mathematical problems needed to unlock the mining rewards to ensure blocks will continue to take around ten minutes to be produced."
"Bitcoin is the hardest money ever invented: growth in its value cannot possibly increase its supply; it can only make the network more secure and immune to attack."
"the Bitcoin ledger of transactions might just be the only objective set of facts in the world"
Ralph Merkle, inventor of the Merkle tree data structure: 
"Bitcoin is the first example of a new form of life. It lives and breathes on the internet. It lives because it can pay people to keep it alive. It lives because it performs a useful service that people will pay it to perform. It lives because anyone, anywhere, can run a copy of its code. It lives because all of the running copies are constantly talking to each other. It lives because ifa ny one copy is corrupted it is discarded, quickly and without any fuss or muss. It lives because it is radically transparent: anyone can see its code and see exactly what it does.
It can't be changed. It can't be argued with. It can't be tampered with. It can't be corrupted. It can't be stopped. It can't even be interrupted.
It nuclear war destroyed half of our planet, it would continue to live, uncorrupted. It would continue to offer its services. It would continue to pay people to keep it alive.
The only way to shut it down is to kill every server that hosts it. Which is hard, because a lot of servers host it, in a lot of countries, and a lot of people want to use it.
Realistically the only way to kill it is to make the service it offers so useless and obsolete that no one wants to use it. So obsolete that no one wants to pay for it. No one wants to host it. Then it will have no money to pay anyone. Then it will starve to death.
But as long as there are people who want to use it, it's very hard to kill, or corrupt, or stop, or interrupt."
"Bitcoin is the first example of a digital good that is scarce and cannot be reproduced infinitely. [...] Beyond digital scarcity, Bitcoin is also the first example of absolute scarcity."

* 9 What is Bitcoin Good For?
"Technology is by its nature both a non-excludable good (meaning that once one person invents something, all others can copy it and benefit from it) and a non-rival good (meaning that a person benefiting from an invention does not reduce the utility that accrues to others who use it). As an example, take the wheel. Once one person invented it, everyone else could copy it and make their own wheel, and their use of their wheel would not in any way reduce others' ability to benefit from it. Ingenious ideas are rare, and only a small minority of people can come up with them."
"around the year 2022, Bitcoin's stock-to-flow ratio will overtake that of gold [...] Around the year 2140 there will be no new supply of Bitcoin, and the stock-to-flow ratio becomes infinite, the first time any commodity or good has achieved this."
"Bitcoin's first and most important value proposition is in giving anyone in the world access to sovereign base money. Any person who owns Bitcoin achieves a degree of economic freedom which was not possible before its invention."
"[...] for the first time since the emergence of the modern state, individuals have a clear technical solution to escaping the financial clout of the governments they live under."
"'Microprocessors will subvert and destroy the nation-state is the provocative thesis of the book" [The Sovereign Individual]
"Bitcoin, and cryptography in general, are defensive technologies that make the cost of defending property and information far lower than the cost of attacking them."
"libertarian anarcho-capitalism as the only logically coherent implication of the idea of free will and self-ownership"
"Bitcoin's capacity for transactions is far more than what the current number of central banks would need even if they settled their accounts daily. Bitcoin's current capacity of around 350,000 transactions per day can allow a global network of 850 banks to each have one daily transaction with every other bank on the network. (The number of unique connections in a network equals n(n-1)/2, where n is the number of nodes."
"The point at which central banks start to consider using it is the point at which they are all engaged in a reverse bank run on Bitcoin."

* 10 Bitcoin Questions
"Is Bitcoin Mining a Waste"? Saifedean answers: "the only judgment  whether this electricity has gone to waste or not lies with the consumer who pays for it."
"the defense of the Bitcoin network is not just that attacking it has become expensive, but that the attack succeeding renders the attacker's loot worthless"
"Bitcoin can thus be understood as a technology that converts electricity to truthful records through the expenditure of processing power."
"A non-Bitcoin blockchain combines the worst of both worlds: the cumbersome structure of the blockchain with the cost and security risk of trusted third parties."
"A blockchain that is alterable is a functionally pointless exercise in engineering sophistry: it uses a complex and expensive method for clearance to remove intermediaries and establish immutability, but then grants an intermediary the ability to overturn that immutability."